BoF #2 charter issue #5 (#113)
bdetwiler/draft-detecting-unwanted-location-trackers: charter/charter-detecting-unwanted-location-trackers.md

5. Design mechanisms to ensure that devices that do not correctly implement or adhere to the DULT protocol can be detected and excluded from being trackable via crowdsourced location networks.
 * This includes considerations for addressing legacy trackers that cannot update to the DULT protocol.

> The WG will not standardize an end-to-end platform-based unwanted tracking detection system or define requirements for interactions between accessory manufacturers and law enforcement. The focus of the WG will be on small and not easily-discoverable accessories. Accessories are considered easily discoverable if they meet one of the following criteria:  

Reviewer: I think this "end-to-end" language is a bit confusing. Let me see if I can flesh out the intention here. 

- Standardize the protocols used by (1) the tag to communicate with finding devices (2) the tag to communicate with devices when apparent unwanted tracking is detected (e.g., to cause it to beep).
- Not standardize the protocols use by the finding device to report to the tracking network (e.g., to upload to iCloud), the protocols used to initialize the tag, or the protocols used by the tag owner to query the network for location.

One way to phrase this is that it ought to be enough to allow you to build your own tag that would work with the network, assuming it had the right keying material. 

Does that sound right?

* The accessory is larger than 30 cm in at least one dimension.  
* The accessory is larger than 18 cm x 13 cm in two of its dimensions.  

> * The accessory is larger than 250 cm3 in three-dimensional space.

Reviewer: Now that I see this written down, I'm not sure how helpful it is. I get that we're not worried about someone dropping a bicycle in my backpack, but what's restricting this to small accessories getting us?

Reviewer 2: I think there's a way to say "small things that could be slipped into a bag unnoticed" without having the charter define sizes in centimeters.

5. Design mechanisms to ensure that devices that do not correctly implement or adhere to the DULT protocol can be detected and excluded from being trackable via crowdsourced location networks.
 * This includes considerations for addressing legacy trackers that cannot update to the DULT protocol.

> The WG will not define requirements for interactions between accessory manufacturers and law enforcement. The focus of the WG will be on small and not easily-discoverable accessories. Accessories are considered easily discoverable if they meet one of the following criteria:  
> 
> * The accessory is larger than 30 cm in at least one dimension.  
> * The accessory is larger than 18 cm x 13 cm in two of its dimensions.  
> * The accessory is larger than 250 cm3 in three-dimensional space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The WG will not define requirements for interactions between accessory manufacturers and law enforcement. The focus of the WG will be on solving the use case of detecting small and not easily-discoverable accessories, supporting any functionality that is necessary for identifying and recognizing such accessories.
```

5. Design mechanisms to ensure that devices that do not correctly implement or adhere to the DULT protocol can be detected and excluded from being trackable via crowdsourced location networks.
 * This includes considerations for addressing legacy trackers that cannot update to the DULT protocol.

> The WG will not define requirements for interactions between accessory manufacturers and law enforcement. The focus of the WG will be on solving the use case of detecting small and not easily-discoverable accessories, supporting any functionality that is necessary for identifying and recognizing such accessories.

Reviewer 2: @ekr does this help explain why the focus would be on the use cases for small devices? Effectively, this lets the protocol work include things like ways to trigger playing a sound or getting a picture of what the accessory looks like, which isn't necessary for the bike case.

Reviewer: I think it depends on whether the tag is removable, right?

Reviewer 2: What depends on being removable? I think the main point is to have the focus of the development be on these kinds of devices, and make sure that if there needs to be a way to fetch a URL to get a picture of the device or a command to trigger a sound, those are scoped in.
